README.md, before:

# webpack-template

- Webpack template files with configuration and node modules prepared.
- ESLint and Prettier also installed and configured.

## Getting Started

1. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies.
2. Start the development server with `npm run dev`.
3. Open your browser and navigate to the designated address noted toward the top of the webpack serve dialog seen inside the terminal e.g. `[webpack-dev-server] Loopback: http://localhost:8080/, http://[::1]:8080/`.
4. After verifying the default webpack template page loads, you can delete the test file `greeting.js` and clear the webpack test code from `style.css` and `index.js` (note: `import "./style.css";` in `index.js` is required to be kept for webpack functionality).

## Available Scripts

This template is set up to run webpack via scripts located in package.json.

### To run webpack:

Enter `npm run + script name` (`build`, `dev`, `deploy`) -- example `npm run dev`

`npm run build` is equivalent to running `npx webpack`,
`npm run dev` is equivalent to running `npx webpack serve`, and
`npm run deploy` runs `git subtree push --prefix dist origin gh-pages` which is the final step in the webpack deployment process.

### To run ESLint:

Enter `npx eslint yourfile.js` on any file or directory via the command line.

### To run Prettier:

Enter `npx prettier --write .` to format the entire project, or
`npx prettier --write app/` to format a certain directory, or
`npx prettier --write app/components/Button.js` to format a certain file.

## Create a Production Build

1. After testing your application in development mode, stop the development server by pressing `Ctrl + C` in the terminal.
2. To create a production build, run `npm run build`.

## Deployment to GitHub Pages

1. To create and deploy a production build to GitHub Pages, run the following code in sequence:

- `git branch gh-pages`
- ensure everything is git committed on main, then continue
- `git checkout gh-pages && git merge main --no-edit`
- `npm run build`
- `git add dist -f && git commit -m "ops: deployment commit"`
- `npm run deploy`

Commit message:

build: add Jest testing framework
install Jest via npm.

create sum.js and sum.test.js test file.

add script command to package.json.

modify eslint.config.mjs to recognize Jest global
syntax.

install Babel via npm to allow Jest to recognize
ESM-style import/export syntax.

edit README.md to include details about running
Jest and other small edits.

README.md, after:

# webpack-template

- Webpack template files with configuration and node modules prepared.
- ESLint and Prettier also installed and configured.
- Jest testing framework installed and configured.

## Getting Started

1. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies.
2. Start the development server with `npm run dev`.
3. Open your browser and navigate to the designated address noted toward the top of the webpack serve dialog output in the terminal e.g. `[webpack-dev-server] Loopback: http://localhost:8080/, http://[::1]:8080/`.
4. After verifying the default webpack template page loads, you can delete the test file `greeting.js` and clear the webpack test code from `style.css` and `index.js` (note: `import "./style.css";` in `index.js` is required to be kept for webpack functionality).
5. You can also test Jest by running `npm test` to verify everything is working properly and then delete the `sum.js` and `sum.test.js` testing files.

## Available Scripts

This template is set up to run webpack via scripts located in package.json.

### To run webpack:

Enter `npm run + script name` (`build`, `dev`, `deploy`) -- example `npm run dev`

`npm run build` is equivalent to running `npx webpack`,
`npm run dev` is equivalent to running `npx webpack serve`, and
`npm run deploy` runs `git subtree push --prefix dist origin gh-pages` which is the final step in the webpack deployment process.

### To run ESLint:

Enter `npx eslint yourfile.js` on any file or directory via the command line.

### To run Prettier:

Enter `npx prettier --write .` to format the entire project, or
`npx prettier --write app/` to format a certain directory, or
`npx prettier --write app/components/Button.js` to format a certain file.

### To run Jest tests:

Enter `npm test` to run all tests via the `package.json` script, or
`jest yourtestfile.test.js` to run a specific test file and can also pass flags and arguments on-the-fly without modifying `package.json`.

## Create a Production Build

1. After testing your application in development mode, stop the development server by pressing `Ctrl + C` in the terminal.
2. To create a production build, run `npm run build`.

## Deployment to GitHub Pages

1. To create and deploy a production build to GitHub Pages, run the following code in sequence:

- `git branch gh-pages`
- ensure everything is git committed on main, then continue
- `git checkout gh-pages && git merge main --no-edit`
- `npm run build`
- `git add dist -f && git commit -m "ops: deployment commit"`
- `npm run deploy`
